HDDS-11026. Continuous Integration With GitHub Actions. (#382)
apache/ozone-site: docs/08-developer-guide/03-test/04-continuous-integration.md

| --- | --- |
| **`build-branch`** | The **name** of the workflow in the Actions tab. It comes from the `name:` field in [`post-commit.yml`](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/.github/workflows/post-commit.yml). |
| **`ci.yml`** | Where most **jobs** (compile, tests, and so on) are defined. `post-commit.yml` calls this file as a [reusable workflow](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/reusing-workflows). |

So: **`post-commit.yml`** = front door; **`ci.yml`** = where the heavy lifting is described.

When you push new commits to an open pull request, **newer runs can cancel older ones** still in progress ([concurrency](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-jobs/using-concurrency)). That is normal and saves time.

## Run checks on your machine

Running scripts locally catches problems before you push. You need a working dev environment first—see [Build with Maven](../../developer-guide/build/maven) and [Building from source](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#building-from-source) in `CONTRIBUTING.md`.

From the **root of your clone** (the folder that contains `hadoop-ozone/`):

```bash
./hadoop-ozone/dev-support/checks/build.sh

> ```

Reviewer: We should highlight that this command is just an example.  I'd also move it after the table below.

Most checks live in [`hadoop-ozone/dev-support/checks`](https://github.com/apache/ozone/tree/master/hadoop-ozone/dev-support/checks). The [Check your contribution](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#check-your-contribution) section groups them by rough duration:

| Rough time | Scripts | What they do |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Build step | `build.sh` | Compile Ozone |
| Minutes | `author.sh`, `bats.sh`, `rat.sh`, `docs.sh`, `dependency.sh`, `checkstyle.sh`, `pmd.sh` | Style, license headers, docs, dependency list |
| ~10 minutes | `findbugs.sh`, `kubernetes.sh` | SpotBugs, small Kubernetes-related checks |

> | An hour or more | `unit.sh`, `integration.sh`, `acceptance.sh` | Unit tests, mini-cluster tests, Docker Compose acceptance tests |

Reviewer: Omit `unit.sh`

`integration.sh` and `acceptance.sh` can take extra arguments to run a subset; open the scripts to see options. Output usually lands under `target/` (for example `target/docs`).

## Why did CI skip some jobs?

Not every pull request runs every job. A step called **build-info** runs [`selective_ci_checks.sh`](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/dev-support/ci/selective_ci_checks.sh) and only enables jobs that match the files you changed—unless:

- the run is **not** from a PR, or
- the PR has the **`full tests needed`** [label](https://docs.github.com/en/issues/using-labels-and-milestones-to-track-work/managing-labels).

So a focused change might show fewer checks than a large refactor. **That is expected.** Reviewers can add **`full tests needed`** when the full matrix is required. If you think the wrong jobs were skipped, **ask on the PR**; reviewers are used to that question.

## What the main CI jobs do (overview)

The list below matches [`.github/ci.md`](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/.github/ci.md). Treat it as a map when reading logs, not something to memorize.

- **build-info** — Decides which other jobs run (selective CI).

> - **compile** — Builds with Java 8 and 11 via [`build.sh`](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/hadoop-ozone/dev-support/checks/build.sh); later jobs typically use the Java 8 build.

Reviewer: - `build` performs a full build, its output is used by later jobs.
- `compile` re-builds with various Java versions.  Also, it uses the source tarball (i.e. release artifact) produced by `build`, not the git repo.

- **basic** — Checks like author tags, BATS, Checkstyle, Hugo for docs, SpotBugs, PMD, RAT—depending on what was selected.

> - **unit** — [`unit.sh`](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/hadoop-ozone/dev-support/checks/unit.sh) and [`native.sh`](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/hadoop-ozone/dev-support/checks/native.sh) for RocksDB-native tests.

Reviewer: `unit` check no longer exists.  `integration` check now runs all JUnit tests, regardless of which submodule they live in (HDDS-9242).  The native lib is built/used in all jobs (HDDS-12734).

> - **dependency** — Compares JARs to [`jar-report.txt`](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/hadoop-ozone/dist/src/main/license/jar-report.txt).

Reviewer: `dependency` checks if any dependencies are added or removed, as a reminder to update `LICENSE.txt`.  (Using `jar-report.txt` is more of an implementation detail.)

- **acceptance** — [`acceptance.sh`](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/hadoop-ozone/dev-support/checks/acceptance.sh) (Robot Framework + Docker Compose; variants like secure / unsecure / misc).
- **kubernetes** — [`kubernetes.sh`](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/hadoop-ozone/dev-support/checks/kubernetes.sh).
- **integration** — [`integration.sh`](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/hadoop-ozone/dev-support/checks/integration.sh) (mini-cluster style tests, often sharded in CI).
- **coverage** — [`coverage.sh`](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/hadoop-ozone/dev-support/checks/coverage.sh) merges coverage when earlier jobs produced it.

> Some jobs use a **matrix** (for example multiple Java versions) with **fail-fast**: if one matrix leg fails, the others in that matrix stop. Unrelated jobs can still run until they finish or fail.

Reviewer: `fail-fast` behavior has been disabled after GitHub made it possible to re-run specific jobs (HDDS-6464).

## Other workflows

The [workflows directory](https://github.com/apache/ozone/tree/master/.github/workflows) also contains jobs for caches, labeling, Ratis builds, repeating tests, generated docs, and more. The folder on `master` is the up-to-date list.

### Stale pull requests

[`close-stale-prs.yaml`](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/.github/workflows/close-stale-prs.yaml) runs on a timer and uses [actions/stale](https://github.com/actions/stale) to nudge and eventually close very inactive PRs. Exact timings are in that file.

## If something fails

:::note Green CI is a team norm

A red check does not mean you did something wrong—it means the run found something to fix. It happens to everyone.

:::

1. Open the failed **`build-branch`** run → click the red job → read the **log** from the bottom upward for the first error.

> 2. If the job uploaded **Artifacts**, download them from the run summary (they expire after a short time).

Reviewer: I don't think expiry needs to be mentioned here.  Build artifacts (binary and source tarballs) expire after 1 day, but test results only after 90 days (the default on GitHub).

> 3. Try the same **check script** locally if you have the environment set up ([Run checks on your machine](#run-checks-on-your-machine)).

Reviewer: I think we should differentiate here:

1. basic: can be safely run locally, they are quick and do not need prior build
2. dependency/license: quick, but need build
3. repro: needs build
4. integration check: pass `-Dtest='...'` to restrict to specific JUnit test(s), or run them using other means (e.g. IDE)
5. acceptance check: needs build, and better run only the failed `test*.sh` (the one mentioned in the log, e.g. `ERROR: Test execution of ozone/test-legacy-bucket.sh is FAILED`)
6. kubernetes: tested only on Linux

4. To re-run without new code, use **Re-run all jobs** or **Re-run failed jobs** on the run page, or:

```bash
git commit --allow-empty -m 'trigger new CI check'

> ```

Reviewer: I think we should omit both "Re-run all jobs" and the empty commit.  They are not optimal ways to trigger new run.

Committers: re-run failed jobs.
Other contributors: wait for some committer to do so; ask for it if it does not happen within reasonable time (which depends on time of day, day of week, holidays, etc.).

Checks that need any of the artifacts with 1-day expiry should be re-run within that period.

In any case, this should be done only for transient errors / flaky tests.

> Failures on the **main** repo’s default branch sometimes leave extra artifacts on [ozone build results](https://elek.github.io/ozone-build-results/) (community mirror).

Reviewer: Marton's build result archive is no longer updated.  Forked one is available at https://github.com/adoroszlai/ozone-build-results/

### Get help

- Ask on your **pull request**—reviewers can interpret unfamiliar failures quickly.
- **Email** [dev@ozone.apache.org](mailto:dev@ozone.apache.org) for broader questions.
- **[GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/apache/ozone/discussions)** and the [#ozone](http://s.apache.org/slack-invite) Slack channel (ASF Slack) are listed in [`CONTRIBUTING.md`](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#who-to-contact).

### Local and wiki testing notes

> - Wiki: [Running Ozone smoke tests and unit tests](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/OZONE/Running+Ozone+Smoke+Tests+and+Unit+Tests).

Reviewer: I think we can omit this, content is outdated.

## Advanced: flaky tests and debugging on a fork

These patterns are for **repeat failures** or **environment-only** bugs. They usually live on a **personal fork**, not in `apache/ozone`.

- Wiki: [GitHub Actions tips and tricks](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/OZONE/Github+Actions+tips+and+tricks) — running one test many times, extra logging, optional [tmate](https://github.com/tmate-io/tmate)-style access (unsafe on public repos; never with secrets exposed).

> - Prefer current runner images (for example `ubuntu-latest`) when copying older examples.

Reviewer: I think this is outdated.  We have the more user-friendly `flaky-test-check` and `repeat-acceptance-test` workflows.  They should be used in one's own fork.

## Deprecated workflows

> Old workflows can still appear on the [Actions](https://github.com/apache/ozone/actions) tab. An outdated workflow also named **build-branch** is tied to [`chaos.yml`](https://github.com/apache/ozone/actions/workflows/chaos.yml), not the current `post-commit.yml` pipeline—compare URLs. Full list: [`.github/ci.md` — Old/Deprecated Workflows](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/.github/ci.md#olddeprecated-workflows).

Reviewer: This can be removed, the confusing duplicate `build-branch` workflow no longer appears in https://github.com/apache/ozone/actions

## See also

- [`.github/ci.md`](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/.github/ci.md) in `apache/ozone`
- [Contributing guide — Check your contribution](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#check-your-contribution)
- Wiki: [Ozone CI with GitHub Actions](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/OZONE/Ozone+CI+with+Github+Actions) (older context; prefer the repo for current names)

> - Wiki: [GitHub Actions tips and tricks](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/OZONE/Github+Actions+tips+and+tricks)

Reviewer: I would omit these links to outdated docs that we are trying to migrate content from.

(Contributing guide is not outdated, but there is another link to it above.)

:::

## Start here: your first code contribution

Follow these steps once; after that, pushing to your branch is the usual loop.

1. **Fork and clone** [`apache/ozone`](https://github.com/apache/ozone) to **your** GitHub account, then clone **your fork** locally. You will push branches to `origin` on the fork, then open a PR to `apache/ozone`.
2. **Turn on Actions** on the fork so workflows actually run ([how to enable them](#enable-github-actions-on-your-fork)).
3. **Jira** — Create or choose an issue in [HDDS](https://issues.apache.org/jira/projects/HDDS/) (the Ozone Jira project; the name is historical). Need an account? Use the ASF [Jira self-service](https://selfserve.apache.org/jira-account.html?project=ozone) form.
4. **Branch** — Work on a branch, often named after the issue (for example `HDDS-1234`).
5. **Push** — When you push, GitHub should show a **`build-branch`** workflow run under the **Actions** tab on your fork. Wait for it to finish and fix any failures you can reproduce.

> 6. **Open the PR** — Use the [pull request template](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/.github/pull_request_template.md). When the change is ready for review, set the Jira to **Patch Available** so committers know to look.

Reviewer 2: Contributors can review the PR as well. Let's update this statement.

```suggestion
6. **Open the PR** — Use the [pull request template](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/.github/pull_request_template.md) to describe your work and raise the PR. Once submitted, change the Jira status to **Patch Available**.
```

The full narrative (reviews, merging, Jira etiquette) is in the [Ozone contributing guide](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#contribute-your-modifications).

:::tip You can lean on CI first

Many contributors fix quick issues by reading the failing log on GitHub, then pushing a small follow-up commit. Running every check locally is **optional but helpful** for faster feedback; see [Run checks on your machine](#run-checks-on-your-machine).

:::

## Enable GitHub Actions on your fork

New forks sometimes have workflows off until you allow them.

1. Open **your fork** on GitHub → **Settings** → **Actions** → **General**.
2. Under **Actions permissions**, pick a policy that allows workflows to run (many people use **Allow all actions and reusable workflows** on personal forks).
3. Open the **Actions** tab. If GitHub asks to enable workflows, confirm so **`build-branch`** runs when you push.

> More detail: [Enabling or disabling GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/enabling-or-disabling-github-actions-for-a-repository).

Reviewer 2: This link is invalid.

## What you see in GitHub: `build-branch`

Two names show up in docs; both mean “the main CI pipeline”:

| What | Meaning |
| --- | --- |
| **`build-branch`** | The **name** of the workflow in the Actions tab. It comes from the `name:` field in [`post-commit.yml`](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/.github/workflows/post-commit.yml). |
| **`ci.yml`** | Where most **jobs** (build, compile, tests, and so on) are defined. `post-commit.yml` calls this file as a [reusable workflow](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/reusing-workflows). |

So: **`post-commit.yml`** = front door; **`ci.yml`** = where the heavy lifting is described.

When you push new commits to an open pull request, **newer runs can cancel older ones** still in progress ([concurrency](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-jobs/using-concurrency)). That is normal and saves time.

## Run checks on your machine

> Running scripts locally catches problems before you push. You need a working dev environment first—see [Build with Maven](../../developer-guide/build/maven) and [Building from source](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#building-from-source) in `CONTRIBUTING.md`.

Reviewer 3: We can link within the website for this.
```suggestion
Running scripts locally catches problems before you push. You need a working dev environment first. See [Building Ozone With Maven](docs/developer-guide/build/maven).
```

Most checks live in [`hadoop-ozone/dev-support/checks`](https://github.com/apache/ozone/tree/master/hadoop-ozone/dev-support/checks). The [Check your contribution](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#check-your-contribution) section groups them by rough duration:

| Rough time | Scripts | What they do |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | Build step | `build.sh` | Compile Ozone |

Reviewer 3: This should be a time, right?

Also If we are putting the content here there is no need to also link to it in the contributing guide.

> | Minutes | `author.sh`, `bats.sh`, `rat.sh`, `docs.sh`, `dependency.sh`, `checkstyle.sh`, `pmd.sh` | Style, license headers, docs, dependency list |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| A few minutes | `author.sh`, `bats.sh`, `rat.sh`, `docs.sh`, `dependency.sh`, `checkstyle.sh`, `pmd.sh` | Style, license headers, docs, dependency list |
```

| ~10 minutes | `findbugs.sh`, `kubernetes.sh` | SpotBugs, small Kubernetes-related checks |
| An hour or more | `integration.sh`, `acceptance.sh` | JUnit tests (via integration), mini-cluster style tests, Docker Compose acceptance tests |

The command below is **only an example** of running one script from the **root of your clone** (the folder that contains `hadoop-ozone/`):

```bash
./hadoop-ozone/dev-support/checks/build.sh
```

> More on test styles: [Acceptance tests](./acceptance-tests) on this site.

Reviewer 3: In this suggestion I had to "escape" the closing tripple quote on the bash code block to fix a github rendering error. That's not intended to be included in the final suggestion.

```suggestion
This is an example command to run the `build` check locally from the root of your fork (the directory that contains `hadoop-ozone/`):

```bash
./hadoop-ozone/dev-support/checks/build.sh
\```

Other test scripts in `hadoop-ozone/dev-support/checks/` can be run similarly. To run individual acceptance tests, see [Acceptance tests](docs/developer-guide/test/acceptance-tests#running-tests-locally-using-docker-compose).
```

### Reproducing failures locally (by check type)

What you need depends on which job failed:

1. **basic** — Safe to run locally without a full prior build; scripts are quick (author tags, BATS, RAT, docs, Checkstyle, PMD, SpotBugs, and similar—whatever `basic` selected for that run).
2. **dependency / license** — Quick, but expects a **build** already (the dependency check compares against built outputs / the dependency list).

> 3. **Checks that reproduce compiler or packaging issues** — Run the same **`build.sh`** (or narrower Maven command) after a normal dev build; align with the log.

Reviewer 3: > ; align with the log

What does this mean?

> 4. **integration** (JUnit) — After a build, narrow work to one test with Maven, for example `-Dtest='YourTestClass'`, or run the same class or method from your IDE. [`integration.sh`](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/hadoop-ozone/dev-support/checks/integration.sh) wraps the full suite; open it for flags and defaults.

Reviewer 3: > -Dtest='YourTestClass'

Does this work, or do you need a fully qualified name with the package prefix?

Reviewer: It works.

> 5. **acceptance** — Needs a **build** (often a dist build). Prefer re-running only the failing shell driver the log names (for example a line like `ERROR: Test execution of ozone/test-legacy-bucket.sh is FAILED` points at `test-legacy-bucket.sh`) instead of the whole suite.

Reviewer 3: > often a dist build

I don't think this has been previously defined anywhere.

Reviewer: Also, what does "often" mean?  (Is this an artifact of AI-generated text?)

> 5. **acceptance** — Needs a **build** (often a dist build). Prefer re-running only the failing shell driver the log names (for example a line like `ERROR: Test execution of ozone/test-legacy-bucket.sh is FAILED` points at `test-legacy-bucket.sh`) instead of the whole suite.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
5. **acceptance** — Needs a **build** (often a dist build). Prefer re-running only the failing shell driver the log names instead of the whole suite.
    - For example, a line like `ERROR: Test execution of ozone/test-legacy-bucket.sh is FAILED` points at `test-legacy-bucket.sh`.
```

6. **kubernetes** — The `kubernetes.sh` check is aimed at **Linux** environments; macOS or Windows may not match CI.

`integration.sh` and `acceptance.sh` can take extra arguments to run a subset; open the scripts to see options. Output usually lands under `target/` (for example `target/docs`).

## Why did CI skip some jobs?

Not every pull request runs every job. A step called **build-info** runs [`selective_ci_checks.sh`](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/dev-support/ci/selective_ci_checks.sh) and only enables jobs that match the files you changed—unless:

- the run is **not** from a PR, or

> - the PR has the **`full tests needed`** [label](https://docs.github.com/en/issues/using-labels-and-milestones-to-track-work/managing-labels).

Reviewer 3: This links to example PRs showing its usage instead of generic label documentation.
```suggestion
- the PR has the [full tests needed](https://github.com/apache/ozone/issues?q=label%3A%22full%20tests%20needed%22) label.
```

> So a focused change might show fewer checks than a large refactor. **That is expected.** Reviewers can add **`full tests needed`** when the full matrix is required. If you think the wrong jobs were skipped, **ask on the PR**; reviewers are used to that question.

Reviewer 3: Overall on this page I think we should reduce the usage of bold font. It makes it very jerky to read and the emphasized portions aren't self explanatory enough to help with skimming. There is also no need to combine bold and monospace formatting.

```suggestion
A focused change might show fewer checks than a large refactor. That is expected. Reviewers can add `full tests needed` when the full matrix is required. If you think the wrong jobs were skipped, ask on the PR; reviewers are used to that question.
```

> ## What the main CI jobs do (overview)

Reviewer 3: This section should probably be moved before running checks on your machine.

The list below matches [`.github/ci.md`](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/.github/ci.md). Treat it as a map when reading logs, not something to memorize.

- **build-info** — Decides which other jobs run (selective CI).
- **build** — Performs a full build; its output is reused by later jobs.
- **compile** — Re-builds with various Java versions. It consumes the **source tarball** (release artifact) produced by **build**, not a fresh checkout of the git repository.

> - **basic** — Checks like author tags, BATS, Checkstyle, Hugo for docs, SpotBugs, PMD, RAT—depending on what was selected.

Reviewer 3: I would remove mention of Hugo. We should probably remove it from Ozone soon.

> - **dependency** — Detects whether dependencies were added or removed, as a reminder to update `LICENSE.txt` (how this is implemented—for example comparisons against `jar-report.txt`—is an internal detail).

Reviewer 3: If we aren't going to specify the implementation then there's no need to mention it.
```suggestion
- **dependency** — Detects whether dependencies were added or removed, as a reminder to update `LICENSE.txt`.
```

Reviewer: Agree.  "how this is implemented ..." was intended as a rationale for the suggestion, not to be included in the doc.

- **acceptance** — [`acceptance.sh`](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/hadoop-ozone/dev-support/checks/acceptance.sh) (Robot Framework + Docker Compose; variants like secure / unsecure / misc).
- **kubernetes** — [`kubernetes.sh`](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/hadoop-ozone/dev-support/checks/kubernetes.sh).
- **integration** — [`integration.sh`](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/hadoop-ozone/dev-support/checks/integration.sh) runs **all** JUnit tests, regardless of which submodule they live in ([HDDS-9242](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HDDS-9242); often sharded in CI). Older CI had a separate **unit** job; it was removed in favor of this.

> - **coverage** — [`coverage.sh`](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/hadoop-ozone/dev-support/checks/coverage.sh) merges coverage when earlier jobs produced it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **coverage** — [`coverage.sh`](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/hadoop-ozone/dev-support/checks/coverage.sh) merges code coverage results from earlier jobs.
```

### Get help

- Ask on your pull request—reviewers can interpret unfamiliar failures quickly.
- Email [dev@ozone.apache.org](mailto:dev@ozone.apache.org) for broader questions.
- [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/apache/ozone/discussions) and the [#ozone](http://s.apache.org/slack-invite) Slack channel (ASF Slack) are listed in [`CONTRIBUTING.md`](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#who-to-contact).

## Advanced: flaky tests and debugging on a fork

For repeat failures or environment-only bugs, use the dedicated workflows on your fork (enable Actions, then run them manually from the Actions tab via workflow_dispatch):

- `flaky-test-check` — defined in [`intermittent-test-check.yml`](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/.github/workflows/intermittent-test-check.yml); runs a chosen JUnit class or method many times across parallel splits.
- `repeat-acceptance-test` — defined in [`repeat-acceptance.yml`](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/.github/workflows/repeat-acceptance.yml); repeats acceptance tests concurrently (suite or filter).

> 

Reviewer 4: Thanks @jojochuang for the patch. There is an additional CI workflow called ci-with-ratis that can be triggered.
For example:
```
- `ci-with-ratis` - defined in [`ci-with-ratis.yml
`](https://github.com/apache/ozone/blob/master/.github/workflows/ci-with-ratis.yml); runs a full CI with a specific Ratis branch. Since Ozone is deeply integrated with Ratis, certain bugs may originate from the Ratis layer. This CI allows us to verify Ozone's stability immediately after applying fixes to Ratis.
```
